# Packet Tracer - Network Representation

## Step 1: Identify common components of a network as represented in Packet Tracer.

List the intermediary device categories.

**_Routers, Switches, Hubs, Wireless Devices_**

Without entering into the internet cloud or intranet cloud, how many icons in the topology represent endpoint devices (only one connection leading to them)?

**_15_**

Without counting the two clouds, how many icons in the topology represent intermediary devices (multiple connections leading to them)?

**_11_**

How many end devices are not desktop computers?

**_10_**

How many different types of media connections are used in this network topology?

**_7_**

## Step 2: Explain the purpose of the devices.

Questions:

a. In Packet Tracer, only the Server-PT device can act as a server. Desktop or Laptop PCs cannot act as a server. Based on your studies so far, explain the client-server model.

**_The client-server model is an application architectural model for distributed applications. The client-server model is a distributed application structure that partitions tasks or workloads between the providers of a resource or service, called servers, and service requesters, called clients._**

b. List at least two functions of intermediary devices.

- **_Switches are used to connect multiple devices to a network_**

- **_Routers are used to connect multiple networks together_**

- **_Hubs are used to connect multiple devices to a network (broadcast behaviour)_**

- **_Access points are used to connect wireless devices to a network_**

c. List at least two criteria for choosing a network media type.

- **_Utility_**
- **_Cost_**

## Step 3: Compare and contrast LANs and WANs.

Questions:

a. Explain the difference between a LAN and a WAN. Give examples of each.

**_A LAN is a local area network, which is a network that connects computers within a limited area such as a home, school, computer laboratory, office building, or group of buildings. A WAN is a wide area network, which is a network that connects computers over a large geographical area such as a city, state, or country._**

b. In the Packet Tracer network, how many WANs do you see?

**_2: The Intranet and the Internet_**

c. How many LANs do you see?

**_3_**

d. The internet in this Packet Tracer network is overly simplified and does not represent the structure and form of the real internet. Briefly describe the internet.

**_The internet is a global system of interconnected computer networks that use the Internet protocol suite (TCP/IP) to link devices worldwide._**

e. What are some of the common ways a home user connects to the internet?

**_Cable, DSL, Satellite, Wireless_**

f. What are some common methods that businesses use to connect to the internet in your area?

**_Optic cable_**

## Challenge Question

Now that you have had an opportunity to explore the network represented in this Packet Tracer activity, you may have picked up a few skills that you would like to try out. Or maybe you would like the opportunity to explore this network in more detail. Realizing that most of what you see and experience in Packet Tracer is currently beyond your skill level, here are some challenges you might want to attempt. Do not worry if you cannot do them all. You will be a Packet Tracer master user and network designer soon enough.

· Add an end device to the topology and connect it to one of the LANs with a media connection. What else does this device need to send data to other end users? Can you provide the information? Is there a way to verify that you correctly connected the device?

**_The device needs an IP address and a default gateway. You can provide the information by right clicking on the device and selecting "Configure". You can verify that you correctly connected the device by pinging it from another device._**

· Add a new intermediary device to one of the networks and connect it to one of the LANs or WANs with a media connection. What else does this device need to serve as an intermediary to other devices in the network?

**_The device needs an IP address and a correctly setup network interface. Most intermediary devices are plug-n-play ready, but additional configuration is expected_**
