# Packet Tracer - Navigate the IOS Using a Terminal Client for Console Connectivity - Physical Mode

## Part 2: Display and Configure Basic Device Settings

### Step 1: Display the switch IOS image version

While you are in the user EXEC mode, use the show version command to display the IOS version for the switch.

**Switch> show version**

Question:
Which IOS image and version is currently in use by the switch?

`ROM: C2960 Boot Loader (C2960-HBOOT-M) Version 12.2(25r)FX, RELEASE SOFTWARE (fc4)`

### Step 2: Configure the clock

a. Display the current clock settings.

`*0:10:19.41 UTC Mon Mar 1 1993`

b. You must be in privileged EXEC mode to change the clock settings. To enter the privileged EXEC mode, type enable at the user EXEC mode prompt.

c. Configure the clock setting. The question mark (?) provides help and allows you to determine the expected input for configuring the current time, date, and year. Press Enter to complete the clock configuration.

d. Enter the show clock command to verify that the clock setting has updated.

`15:28:31.618 UTC Wed Nov 11 2020`

## Reflection Question

1. How do you prevent unauthorized personnel from accessing the Cisco device through the console port?

- _Setup authentication_
- _Disable the console port and telnet so only SSH is available_

2. What are the advantages and disadvantages of using the serial console connection compared to the USB console connection to a Cisco router or switch?

- _Serial console connections have been around for a long time and are widely supported_

- _Serial console connections are very reliable and can withstand electromagnetic interference_

- _Serial console connections are not as fast as USB console connections_

- _USB is never and most modern devices have USB ports_
- _USB is faster than serial console connections_
