# Packet Tracer - Navigate the IOS

## Part 1: Establish Basic Connections, Access the CLI, and explore Help

### Step 2:

b. What is the setting for bits per second?
`9600`

c. What is the prompt on the screen?
`Press RETURN to get started!`

### Step 3:

a. Which command begins with the letter 'C'?
`connect`

b. **t?** Which commands are displayed?
`telnet terminal traceroute`

**te?** Which commands are displayed?
`telnet terminal`

## Part 2: Explore EXEC Modes

### Step 1:

a. What information is displayed for the enable command?
`Turn on priviledged commands`

b. **en\<Tab\>** What displays after pressing the Tab key? `enable`

c. Enter the enable command and press ENTER.

How does the prompt change? `A '#' appears instead of '>'`

d. One command starts with the letter ‘C’ in user EXEC mode.

Question:
How many commands are displayed now that privileged EXEC mode is active? `5`

### Step 2: Enter Global Configuration mode

a. When in privileged EXEC mode, one of the commands starting with the letter ‘C’ is configure. Type either the full command or enough of the command to make it unique. Press the <Tab> key to issue the command and press ENTER.

Question:
What is the message that is displayed? `Configuring from terminal, memory, or network [terminal]? `

b. Press Enter to accept the default parameter that is enclosed in brackets [terminal].

Question:
How does the prompt change?

```
Enter configuration commands, one per line.End with CNTL/Z.
S1(config)#
```

## Part 3: Set the Clock

### Step 1: Use the clock command.

a. Use the clock command to further explore Help and command syntax. Type show clock at the privileged EXEC prompt.

S1# show clock

Question:
What information is displayed? What is the year that is displayed?
`*7:8:54.269 UTC Mon Mar 1 1993`

b. Use the context-sensitive help and the clock command to set the time on the switch to the current time. Enter the command clock and press ENTER.

S1# clock\<ENTER\>

Question
What information is displayed?
`% Incomplete command.`

c. The “% Incomplete command” message is returned by the IOS. This indicates that the clock command needs more parameters. Any time more information is needed, help can be provided by typing a space after the command and the question mark (?).

S1# clock ?

Question:
What information is displayed?
`set  Set the time and date`

d. Set the clock using the clock set command. Proceed through the command one step at a time.

S1# clock set ?

Questions:
What information is being requested?
`hh:mm:ss  Current Time`

### Step 2: Explore additional command messages.

b. Issue the following commands and record the messages:

S1# cl\<tab\>

Questions:
What information was returned?
`clock`

S1# clock

Question:
What information was returned?
`% Incomplete command.`

S1# clock set 25:00:00

Question:
What information was returned?

```
S1#clock set 25:00:00
             ^
% Invalid input detected at '^' marker.
```

S1# clock set 15:00:00 32

Question:
What information was returned?

```
S1#clock set 15:00:00 32
                      ^
% Invalid input detected at '^' marker.
```
