# Packet Tracer - Configure Initial Switch Settings

## Step 2: Examine the current switch configuration.

Enter the show running-config command.

**Switch# show running-config**

Answer the following questions:

How many Fast Ethernet interfaces does the switch have?

`25`

How many Gigabit Ethernet interfaces does the switch have?

`2`

What is the range of values shown for the vty lines?

- **_0-4_**
- **_5-15_**

Which command will display the current contents of non-volatile random-access memory (NVRAM)?

`show startup-config`

Why does the switch respond with “startup-config is not present?”

**_The switch has not been configured yet_**

## Part 2: Create a Basic Switch Configuration

### Step 2: Secure access to the console line.

To secure access to the console line, access config-line mode and set the console password to letmein.

```
S1# configure terminal

Enter configuration commands, one per line. End with CNTL/Z.

S1(config)# line console 0

S1(config-line)# password letmein

S1(config-line)# login

S1(config-line)# exit

S1(config)# exit

%SYS-5-CONFIG***I: Configured from console by console

S1#
```

Question:
Why is the login command required?

**_The login command makes the console line require the password for access_**

### Step 7: Verify that the enable secret password is added to the configuration file.

Enter the show running-config command again to verify the new enable secret password is configured.

Note: You can abbreviate show running-config as

S1# show run

Questions:
What is displayed for the enable secret password?

`enable secret 5 $1$mERr$ILwq/b7kc.7X/ejA4Aosn0`

Why is the enable secret password displayed differently from what we configured?

`it is hashed`

### Step 8: Encrypt the enable and console passwords.

As you noticed in Step 7, the enable secret password was encrypted, but the enable and console passwords were still in plain text. We will now encrypt these plain text passwords using the service password-encryption command.

```
S1# config t

S1(config)# service password-encryption

S1(config)# exit
```

Question:

If you configure any more passwords on the switch, will they be displayed in the configuration file as plain text or in encrypted form? Explain.

**_They will be encrypted, because service password-encryption is global_**

## Part 3: Configure a MOTD Banner

### Step 1: Configure a message of the day (MOTD) banner.

The Cisco IOS command set includes a feature that allows you to configure messages that anyone logging onto the switch sees. These messages are called message of the day, or MOTD banners. Enclose the banner text in quotations or use a delimiter different from any character appearing in the MOTD string.

```
S1# config t

S1(config)# banner motd "This is a secure system. Authorized Access Only!"

S1(config)# exit

%SYS-5-CONFIG***I: Configured from console by console

S1#
```

Questions:

When will this banner be displayed?

**_When a user opens the terminal to connect to IOS CLI_**

Why should every switch have a MOTD banner?

**_It is a best practice to show legal liability_**

## Part 4: Save and Verify Configuration Files to NVRAM

### Step 1: Verify that the configuration is accurate using the show run command.

Save the configuration file. You have completed the basic configuration of the switch. Now back up the running configuration file to NVRAM to ensure that the changes made are not lost if the system is rebooted or loses power.

```
S1# copy running-config startup-config

Destination filename [startup-config]?[Enter]

Building configuration...

[OK]

Close Configuration Window for S1
```

Questions:

What is the shortest, abbreviated version of the copy running-config startup-config command?

`cop r st`

Examine the startup configuration file.

Which command will display the contents of NVRAM?

`show startup-config`

Are all the changes that were entered recorded in the file?

**_Only the ones since they were copied from running-config_**
