# Packet Tracer - Investigate the TCP/IP and OSI Models in Action

## Part 1: Examine HTTP Web Traffic

### Step 2: Generate web (HTTP) traffic.

d. Click Capture/Forward four times. There should be four events in the Event List.

Question:

Look at the Web Client web browser page. Did anything change?

**_Yes, the page loaded (the http response was received)_**

f. Ensure that the OSI Model tab is selected.

Under the Out Layers column, click Layer 7.

Questions:

What information is listed in the numbered steps directly below the In Layers and Out Layers boxes for Layer 7?

**_1. The HTTP client sends a HTTP request to the server._**

What is the Dst Port value for Layer 4 under the Out Layers column?

**_80 (default for HTTP server)_**

What is the Dest. IP value for Layer 3 under the Out Layers column?

**_192.168.1.254 (the IP address of the web server)_**

What information is displayed at Layer 2 under the Out Layers column?

**_Ethernet II Header 0060.47CA.4DEE >> 0001.96A9.401D_**

g. Click the Outbound PDU Details tab.

Information listed under the PDU Formats is reflective of the layers within the TCP/IP model.

Questions:

What is the common information listed under the IP section of PDU Details as compared to the information listed under the OSI Model tab? With which layer is it associated?

**_The IP section of the PDU Details lists the source and destination IP addresses, as well as the protocol used. This information is associated with Layer 3 of the OSI Model. It also shows the headers used to assure reliability, error detection and meta information_**

What is the common information listed under the TCP section of PDU Details, as compared to the information listed under the OSI Model tab, and with which layer is it associated?

**_The source and destination port are listed for client-server communication under the TCP section of the PDU Details. This information is associated with Layer 4 of the OSI Model. It also shows the headers used to assure error correction and the sequence of the packet_**

What is the Host listed under the HTTP section of the PDU Details? What layer would this information be associated with under the OSI Model tab?

**_The host, localization and file mime type are listed under the HTTP section of the PDU Details. This information is associated with Layer 7 of the OSI Model._**

i. Advance to the next HTTP Type box within the Event List and click the colored square box. This window contains both In Layers and Out Layers. Notice the direction of the arrow directly under the In Layers column; it is pointing upward, indicating the direction the data is travelling. Scroll through these layers making note of the items previously viewed. At the top of the column the arrow points to the right. This denotes that the server is now sending the information back to the client.

Question:

Comparing the information displayed in the In Layers column with that of the Out Layers column, what are the major differences?

**_The source and destination IP addresses are reversed, as well as the source and destination ports. The source port is now 80, the default port for HTTP servers. The HTTP headers are different and describe the response body and server metadata_**

k. Click the last colored square box under the Info column.

Question:

How many tabs are displayed with this event? Explain.

**_Only an inbound tab is displayed. This is because the client signals to close the connection before the timeout period. The server does not send a response_**

## Part 2: Display Elements of the TCP/IP Protocol Suite

### Step 1: View Additional Events

b. In the Event List Filters > Visible Events section, click Show All/None.

Question:

What additional Event Types are displayed?

**_ACP, TCP and DNS_**

d. Click the Outbound PDU Details tab.

Question:

What information is listed in the NAME field: in the DNS QUERY section?

**_name, type, class, TTL, length_**

e. Click the last DNS Info colored square box in the event list.

Questions:

At which device was the PDU captured?

**_At Web Client_**

What is the value listed next to ADDRESS: in the DNS ANSWER section of the Inbound PDU Details?

**_IP: 192.168.1.254_**

f. Find the first HTTP event in the list and click the colored square box of the TCP event immediately following this event. Highlight Layer 4 in the OSI Model tab.

Question:

In the numbered list directly below the In Layers and Out Layers, what is the information displayed under items 4 and 5?

4. TCP adds Maximum Segment Size Option to the TCP SYN header with Maximum Segment Size equal to 1460 bytes.
5. The device sends a TCP SYN segment.

g. Click the last TCP event. Highlight Layer 4 in the OSI Model tab. Examine the steps listed directly below In Layers and Out Layers.

Question:

What is the purpose of this event, based on the information provided in the last item in the list (should be item 4)?

**_The TCP connection was closed._**

## Challenge Questions

This simulation provided an example of a web session between a client and a server on a local area network (LAN). The client makes requests to specific services running on the server. The server must be set up to listen on specific ports for a client request. (Hint: Look at Layer 4 in the OSI Model tab for port information.)

Based on the information that was inspected during the Packet Tracer capture, what port number is the Web Server listening on for the web request?

**_80 (HTTP)_**

What port is the Web Server listening on for a DNS request?

**_53_**
